(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.) Welcome to Faith Illuminated, the podcast where we
dive deep into the heart of Christianity, exploring
Jesus, faith, and what it means to walk
with God in today's world.
I'm your host, Pastor Michael Reynolds, and I'm
thrilled to kick off our very first episode.
Here at Faith Illuminated, we're all about honest
conversations, rooted in Scripture, that inspire and challenge
us to grow closer to Christ.
Today, we're tackling a big question.
Who is Jesus?
Not just the Sunday school answer, but the
Jesus we meet in the Bible, in our
lives and in our hearts.
I'm joined by an incredible guest, Dr. Elizabeth
Harper, a biblical scholar and professor of New
Testament studies at Grace Seminary.
Dr. Harper has spent decades studying the life
and teachings of Jesus, and she's written books
like The Word Made Flesh, Christ and the
Gospels.
Elizabeth, welcome to the show.
Elizabeth Harper Thank you, Michael.
It's such a joy to be here.
I'm excited to dig into this topic.
It really is the foundation of everything we
believe as Christians.
Absolutely.
So, let's jump right in.
Elizabeth, when someone asks who is Jesus, where
do you even start?
I mean, it's a question that's both simple
and, well, profound, right?
Elizabeth Harper It really is.
And I think, for me, the best place
to start is often the Gospel of John.
Right at the beginning, John 1 verses 1
and 2 tell us, in the beginning was
the Word, and the Word was with God,
and the Word was God.
He was with God in the beginning.
So, right away, John established that Jesus is
the Word, or Logos, as eternal, as divine,
as God himself.
Michael The Logos, yeah.
Elizabeth Harper Preexistent.
Exactly.
But then, just a few verses later, John
hits us with something stunning.
Verse 14, the Word became flesh and made
his dwelling among us.
This is the incarnation.
It's this incredible mystery, God taking on human
skin, entering into our world or experience, fully
God, yet somehow fully human.
Elizabeth Harper Fully human.
That part is sometimes harder to grasp, I
think, but so vital.
I remember being, oh, maybe 19, wrestling with
this huge theological concept.
Then I read John 11.35, just two
words, Jesus wept.
He's standing at the tomb of his friend
Lazarus, and he weeps.
It just struck me so profoundly.
This wasn't some distant, unfeeling deity.
This was God experiencing human grief, human sorrow.
It made him real, relatable.
Oh, absolutely.
That moment at Lazarus' tomb is incredibly powerful.
It perfectly encapsulates that dual nature we're talking
about.
You see his deep, genuine human empathy, his
sorrow alongside Mary and Martha.
He feels their pain.
But then, moments later, he calls Lazarus out
of the tomb.
You see his divine power over death itself.
Wow, yeah.
It's like Colossians 1 says, he is the
image of the invisible God, and yet he's
right there weeping with his friends.
Both things are true at the same time.
Fully God, displaying divine power, and fully human,
sharing in our deepest sorrows.
So it's not just this abstract idea, something
we see play out, but how do we
help people connect with that today?
Is Jesus just this cosmic figure, the logos,
the creator, or is he someone we can
actually relate to personally?
That's such an important question.
I think the Gospels constantly show us he's
both.
Yeah.
He is the cosmic Christ, but he's also
deeply personal.
Think about the woman at the well in
John 4.
Oh, yes.
Great example.
Right.
Here's a woman who's an outcast, marginalized by
her community, multiple husbands, living with someone who
isn't her husband.
By all accounts, someone a religious teacher back
then might avoid.
Definitely.
Crossing several social boundaries there.
Exactly.
But Jesus doesn't avoid her.
He initiates the conversation.
He sees her, not just her past or
her reputation, and he speaks to her deepest
needs.
He says that amazing line, if you knew
the gift of God and who it is
that asks you for a drink, you would
have asked him and he would have given
you living water.
Living water.
He offers her something life-changing right there
in that personal encounter.
Yes.
He meets her right where she is with
respect and compassion and offers her true spiritual
life.
It's incredibly personal.
It really is.
I remember counseling a woman once.
Let's call her Sarah.
She felt so defined by her past mistakes,
really weighed down by shame, couldn't seem to
connect with God, felt he was distant, judgmental.
And we spent some time in that story,
John 4, just reading it, talking about how
Jesus saw that woman.
And it was like a light bulb went
on for Sarah.
Seeing Jesus interact with a woman at the
well with such grace and understanding, it changed
everything for her.
She started to see Jesus not as someone
waiting to condemn her, but as someone who
understood her, saw her value and offered her
hope.
That personal connection made all the difference.
That's a beautiful illustration of it.
It really is.
I had a similar experience with a student,
let's call him David.
He came into my New Testament class with
this image of Jesus as primarily a judge,
stern, maybe a bit distant.
Okay.
Yeah.
Some people see him that way.
Right.
And he was struggling with that.
But then we studied Philippians chapter two, you
know, verses six through eight, where Paul talks
about Jesus, who being in very nature, God
did not consider equality with God, something to
be used to his own advantage.
Rather, he made himself nothing.
By taking the very nature of a servant.
Exactly.
Being made in human likeness and being found
in appearance as a man, he humbled himself
by becoming obedient to death, even death on
a cross.
Studying that passage, seeing the humility, the sacrifice,
the downward mobility of God himself, it completely
shifted David's perspective.
From judge to servant.
Yes.
From a figure of pure authority to one
of incredible self-giving love and humility.
And that connected for him to Jesus as
savior.
You know, like first Peter 2.24 says,
he himself bore our sins in his body
on the cross so that we might die
to sins and live for righteousness.
It wasn't just a doctrine anymore.
It was seeing the heart of the one
who would humble himself that much for us.
It made Jesus personal, approachable and profoundly loving
for David.
That emphasis on humility and service, it really
counters the idea of a distant God.
It reminds me of another aspect of Jesus
that feels deeply personal, the invitation to rest.
I went through a really low point when
I was about 25, just felt overwhelmed, burned
out, carrying so much.
And I stumbled across Matthew 11 verses 28
to 30.
Come to me, all you who are weary
and burdened, and I will give you rest.
Such comforting words.
They really were.
Take my yoke upon you and learn from
me, for I'm gentle and humble in heart,
and you will find rest for your souls.
For my yoke is easy and my burden
is light.
Reading that felt like personal invitation from Jesus
himself, not adding another burden, but offering relief,
offering rest for my soul.
That passage was honestly a turning point in
my own journey towards a deeper, more personal
relationship with him.
That's powerful.
It really speaks to the deep need we
all have for rest, for peace, not just
physical, but that soul deep rest.
And it connects so well with another image
Jesus uses for herself, the Good Shepherd.
I remember when my mother passed away several
years ago, it was a time of profound
grief, just deep sorrow.
Well, I'm so sorry.
Thank you.
And in that time, I found myself clinging
to Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
Yeah, a classic.
Right.
That image of God as the gentle, guiding,
protecting shepherd, it brought so much comfort.
And then thinking about Jesus in John 10,
where he explicitly says, I am the Good
Shepherd, the Good Shepherd lays down his life
for the sheep.
Takes that familiar image and applies it directly
to himself with that added layer of sacrifice.
Exactly.
It wasn't just an abstract Psalm anymore.
It felt like Jesus himself, the Good Shepherd,
who understands grief, who laid down his life,
was walking with me through that valley.
Knowing him as the Good Shepherd, the one
who guides and protects and even sacrifices, it
was and is deeply personal and sustaining.
Wow.
Thank you.
Thank you for sharing that.
That's incredibly moving.
It just highlights again, doesn't it?
Jesus isn't just one thing.
He's the eternal word and he weeps.
He's the cosmic Christ and he meets the
woman at the well.
He's the humble servant and the Good Shepherd
offering rest.
Yes.
All of it together.
So as we draw towards the end of
our conversation today, if there's one key takeaway
you'd want listeners to hold onto about who
Jesus is, what would that be?
Um, I think I'd say this.
Jesus is the God who came near.
Hebrews 4.5 puts it so beautifully.
For we do not have a high priest
who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses,
but we have one who has been tempted
in every way, just as we are, yet
he did not sin.
He understands you.
He gets it.
Your struggles, your joys, your temptations, your weaknesses.
He's been there.
He can empathize.
Completely.
He understands you.
He loves you.
And he invites you to know him personally.
So my encouragement would be don't just rely
on secondhand information.
Start with the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John,
read them, pray through them, ask questions, and
just let Jesus reveal himself to you through
his own words and actions.
That's wonderful advice.
Open the book, open your heart and encounter
him there.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Your insights have truly been a blessing.
It was my pleasure.
Truly.
Thanks for having me.
And to our listeners, thank you for tuning
in to Faith Illuminated.
If this episode touched your heart, maybe hit
that subscribe button.
Share it with a friend who might need
to hear it.
And leave a comment.
We'd love to hear what Jesus means to
you.
Next week, we'll be talking about living out
our faith in a modern world, navigating some
of the challenges and opportunities we face today,
so don't miss it.
Until then, may you walk in the light
of Christ.
God bless.